Design and Development of Software Agents for Location Privacy-risk estimation
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Abstract
--------

The usage of mobile devices has become ubiquitous in today’s world. More people are
adopting smartphones to be able to connect with family and friends, easily perform
day-to-day tasks, discover new facets, etc. The smartphones are location-enabled and
because of this, the rise of Location-Based Applications (LBAs) in the last decade has
been phenomenal. Different LBAs use location information for advertising, recommendations,
finding new friends, suggesting a new point of interests, etc., based on user
trends. However, sharing location data can reveal personality traits, illnesses, political
inclinations and religious views. When the location data is collected for a certain period,
whereabouts can be easily guessed. For instance, once the location information
is collected for a few days, the arrival and departure time from “work” location can be
easily estimated. Thus, the characteristics revealed just by location details are narrowly
perceived by most users and imposes a privacy risk.

To address this privacy risk, a software agent is developed which helps to estimate and
visualize this threat. It can push notifications and aware the user about the privacy risk
before he/she decides to share the location with LBAs. In this thesis, we present an
algorithm that predicts the user’s future movements with confidence percentages. This
algorithm processes the raw location coordinates and extracts the meaningful locations.
Based on the meaningful locations, a prediction model is formed. This model is used
to predict future visits based on the user’s current location. The algorithm is evaluated
using real-life data from Microsoft Geolife dataset. To inform the user about the privacy
threat, a visualization of future visits with confidence percentages is implemented.
Finally, a prototype on an Android device is developed to help user estimate the privacy
risk before sharing location information on LBAs.



Shashank Sharma
INFOTECH Student
Master Thesis 2018 
Under supervision of M.Sc. Zohaib Riaz